# Time Series Forecasting for Mass Shootings in the U.S. (1966-2021)

The political divide among the people of the United States has always been present, but in morerecent years, this gap between those of different political affiliations appears to widen more andmore. With the growing use of social media to spread videos and ideas in a more efficient manner,new issues and conversations are brought to light, being more easily accessible than ever before. One of these topics of conversation is the issue of increased Mass Shootings and Gun Violence in the United States. According to various sources, the United States has consistently been the country awarded with the highest number of mass shootings.  Although this idea is objective, factual, numerical, and has been widely known for years, the numbers of mass shootings per year seems to grow exponentially. A controversial topic that seems to be choosing between protecting the lives of primarily children in schools or protecting ones’ selves with arms, is an issue in this country that has yet to be solved.

As stated prior, the Mass Shootings in the United States of America (1966-2021) dataset from Kaggle will be utilized in this study, which was originally compiled by Zeeshan-Ul-Hassan Usmani. This dataset was allegedly created using multiple sources including “Wikipedia, Mother Jones, Stanford, USA Today and other web sources” (as stated in his acknowledgements), and was given a Kaggle usability score of 7.94: a score out of 10 that Kaggle assigns datasets based on their completeness, credibility, and compatibility in order to inform users the validity of the data that is presented. 

Rather than acting as a model of inference showing all the different factors that could explain the increase in the numbers of mass shootings, gun violence, and victims, this time series model will serve as a tool to forecast this dataset and show how these numbers will potentially look like in our near future if this current trend is to continue. Although this study isn’t meant to take into account all or even many factors as to why this increase in mass shootings is occurring, creating a window into what this forcasted data may appear like in the future may hopefully incite some further discussion and possible urgency in the hands of all people who have the power to changethe current and future state of this nation.
